Add a doc about how to re-use reconciler/controller logic (#47)
kube-rs/website: docs/controllers/generics.md

# Generics

This chapter contains tips and tricks for re-using generic reconcilers.

## Generic Reconcilers

> It is possible to create generic reconcilers by abstracing away the underlying type by using either [DynamicObject] or [PartialObjectMeta].

Reviewer: why are they enclosed in square bracket? is that a convention or do you want to add urls?

Reviewer: after reading the full doc I guess that when it is finally rendered in doc.rs or kube.rs the ones in square bracket would get linked to the traits or obj def. is that correct?

Author: yes, this is wiki-style links from the links file.

This is a useful technique for controllers that need to do _the same thing_ to a bunch of resources, like for instance adding consistent labels / annotations.

### PartialObjectMeta

This is the easiest and cheapest way to create a generic reconciler because it still retains type information, and you do not have to devolve into a fully dynamic api.

You can create generic reconcilers:

```rust
pub async fn reconcile<K>(obj: Arc<PartialObjectMeta<K>>, ctx: Arc<Context>)
-> Result<Action>
where
    K: Resource<Scope = NamespaceResourceScope, DynamicType = ()>
        + Clone
        + DeserializeOwned
        + Debug,
{

>     let kind = K::kind(&()).to_string();

Reviewer: why do we need this variable? it is not used in this code snipet.
could possibly add a log statement.

Author: it's illustrative

>     let kind = K::kind(&()).to_string();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    let kind = K::kind(&()).to_string();
    tracing::info!("Starting controller for {kind}");
```

Author: we have a message where we are starting it

Reviewer: the below code snippet had it though, anyways if this is good its okay. clippy might complain about unused variable

    let ns = obj.namespace().unwrap();
    let object_name = obj.name_any();
    let api: Api<PartialObjectMeta<K>> = Api::namespaced(ctx.client, &ns);

    // example work; apply some labels to the object
    let patch: Patch<serde_json::Value> = get_standard_labels_for(&obj)?;
    let serverside = PatchParams::apply("labeler");
    api.patch(&object_name, &serverside, &patch).await?;

    Ok(Action::requeue(Duration::from_secs(5 * 60)))
}
```

> The generic constraints on the associated type of the [Resource] here means this is a __namespaced__ resource (hence the unwrap). You could remove this bound (or change it for a cluster scoped only bound), but then you could not unwrap.

Reviewer: didnt get what you mean by `generic constraints`.  tried to write in simpler words
```suggestion
The controller in the example runs for all resources of a specific `kind` in a particular namespace thus the scope __namespaced__. You could also remove the bound and run it for a cluster scope `Api::all` instead of `Api::namespaced`
```

Author: you have also made it wrong, ignoring this. 🙃

The `DynamicType = ()` constraint is to indicate that this is one of the normal statically generated api types that we have api information for at the type level (i.e. they come from `k8s-openapi`).

For information about the resource we rely on the generic [Resource] and [ResourceExt] traits which is implemented by [PartialObjectMeta].

!!! note "Diverging Logic"

    You will only get access to metadata of the object doing this. This can be mitigated by doing a `match` on `kind` and creating a more specific `Api<K>` inside a match arm.

These reconcilers can be hooked up to a `Controller<K>` with another possibly generic fn.

```rust

> async fn run_controller<K>(client: Client) -> Result<(), Infallible>

Reviewer 2: This could just not have a return value and then it would simplify the code and explanation below (no need to mention `Infallible` and can use `tokio::join` instead).

Author: Yeah. The thing I was unsure about was whether it made sense to leave it there because there might be other reasons a user might want to not avoid the result type. Still, it's probably easier for people to extend something very basic. https://github.com/kube-rs/website/pull/47/commits/373847ad6ab9b0c9711d60ee8235bb86b6de9dc0

where
    K: Resource<Scope = NamespaceResourceScope, DynamicType = ()>
        + Clone
        + DeserializeOwned
        + Debug
        + Sync
        + Send
        + 'static,
{
    let kind = K::kind(&()).to_string();
    tracing::info!("Starting controller for {kind}");

    let api = Api::<K>::all(client.clone());
    let (reader, writer) = reflector::store();

    // controller main stream from metadata_watcher
    let stream = metadata_watcher(api, watcher::Config::default())
        .default_backoff()
        .modify(|x| {
            x.managed_fields_mut().clear(); // ResourceExt pruning
        })
        .reflect(writer)
        .applied_objects()

>         .predicate_filter(predicates::generation);

Reviewer 2: I don't think the filter for generation makes sense here, the controller can only operate on metadata but the filter means it will only act when the spec changes

Author: This should actually work, [`generation`](https://docs.rs/kube-runtime/0.86.0/src/kube_runtime/utils/predicate.rs.html#176) reads a metadata property.

Author: It's effectively a way to tell the controller to only get notified about spec changes, but you don't get the actual information (because you are only using a `metadata_watcher`)

Reviewer 2: Yeah, but spec changes are irrelevant for this controller, since it can't act on the changes anyways, the reconcile function only has access to `PartialObjectMeta`. Assuming our controller just makes sure there is a certain annotation on the resource, the controller would be triggerd by any spec change, but it would not be triggered if someone removed this annotation.

Author: oh, right, that is a good point.
https://github.com/kube-rs/website/pull/47/commits/67780882a488b560db32bc4edbd47dcfe3c3c3a6

Reviewer 2: Thinking about it, maybe using a filter like `predicates::annotations` makes sense?

Author: That is a great idea. I'll want to just give that go first in the work controller at some point during the week to verify. Will update the example if it works out well - but in theory that should work.
